In the previous lecture we have been talking about bias variance tradeoff.
And we have come to the conclusion that we need the help of pruning or bagging.
We are able to decrease the variance of a decision tree classifier.
OK we have to come to the conclusion that pruning is not the best solution because if we use pruning
there's going to be some extra bias.
So bagging is a bit better solution.
Bagging stands for bootstrap aggregation and the theory behind the bagging is rather counter-intuitive
because the intuition is that a weak learner is not able to make good predictions.
A weak learner is just a bit better than a random guess or a coin flip the coin flip has the accuracy
50 percent.
So 0.5 is the probability that it is going to make good decisions.
For example a decision tree we that one is a weak learner.
So for example when we have been talking about decision trees we had a simple example with just a single
feature X which was the number of hours the students spent with studying and the target for our table
is the probability of passing the exam.
In this case we are able to solve this problem with the help of a decision tree with that one.
As you can see it has a root node as usual and just two braunches a flat child for fail and the right
child for passing the exam.
OK so this is a very very simple decision tree.
In this case for this given problem it is working quite fine but usually decision trees with that one
are considered to be learners.
And it was extremely counter-intuitive that combining the learners can prove to be an extremely powerful
classifier.
So basically that's the idea behind begging that if we keep combining lots of lots of weak learners
we are going to end up with a powerful classifier.
And it is very similar to the black shorts.
I'm a huge fan of quantitative finance and black shorts the model is approximately the same in the sense
that it is rather counter-intuitive as well.
So too risky positions taken together can effectively eliminate risk south.
OK so let's get back to begging.
So bagging stands for bootstrap aggregation.
It reduces the variance of the learning algorithm and the math behind bagging is that if we have an
X set of and independent variables X on X to up to X an each variant Suvi.
So X-1 has variants we X-2 has variants we x and has variants We then the variance of the mean of x.
So the mean of x x to x and variables is we divide by.
And as you can see the more x items we have in the X dataset the smaller the final variance.
So basically we can reduce the variance by averaging a set of observations.
So a good idea to have multiple training sets and construct a decision tree or weed out pruning on every
single training set.
We are going to generate lots of lots of decision trees.
So we are going to have lots of lots of observations.
Why is it good.
Because we can reduce the variance by averaging a set of observations.
But of course we have a huge problem.
We don't have several training SATs.
So the solution is that we should take repeated samples from the single data set.
So for example when dealing with the iris dataset we have a data set like this with a hundred and fifty
samples with three output classes with four features and so on.
So this is the single dataset we are talking about.
We keep constructing decision trees plots we ever reach all the predictions in the end.
OK.
It is extremely important that all of these trees are fully grown.
Prune the decision trees so we keep constructing decision trees like we have seen for the decision tree
classifiers section.
Either way the information gain approach or with the Genie index approach we are going to construct
decision trees like this.
So these are fully grown on Prun decision trees.
OK.
And in the end we are going to ever reach all the predictions.
So every single decision tree will have a guess that was going to be the solution and that we just have
to average all these predictions in order to get the final answer.
Basically this is the bagging algorithm.
OK so we have been talking about pruning where Varians decreases but we have some extra us here we can
reduce the variance.
We don't act for bias so that's why I have told you that bagging is a better approach than pruning for
a regression problem.
We take the average.
So we have to average all the predictions in the end for classification problems.
We take the majority vote.
OK.
So begging is a bit better than pruning.
But again we have a huge problem with bagging that deconstructed tree like structures are highly correlated
and you may pose the question that why do correlation occur here.
Because every data sat has a strong predictor as far as the iris data set is concerned.
SEP-IRA Lang Saporta we had that length and Pat al-Bared of course some features are important and some
features are not.
Basically that's why we have to calculate the entropy and information gain because the root node in
a decision tree has something to do with the most important feature.
So as far as the iris dataset is concerned that petal Lankes is the most relevant feature.
OK so every data set has a strong predictor or feature.
This is the most relevant feature in the data set and all the back the trees tend to make the same splits
because they all share the same features.
So what does it mean.
Because of all this all these trees look very very similar to the size of these different decision trees
will be very very similar.
Hence they are highly correlated.
And what does it mean that they are highly correlated that they are going to yield the same result no
matter what.
So basically there is no point in generating lots of lots of decision trees and take the average all
the predictions in the end because all of these trees have the same predictions because of the high
correlation.
OK so these trees are highly correlated because we use all the features and the features in the data
set.
There's going to be a strong predictor that's going to be the root node of every single decision tree.
And that's why begging again is not the best solution possible.
So pruning is a good approach in order to reduce the variance for a decision tree.
Dan we came to the conclusion that we can do better with the help of begging.
Begging is going to construct several decision trees and it is going to ever reach all the predictions
in the end.
But again there's a huge problem as far as high correlation is concerned.
And that's why we can pose the question that can we do better than bagging.
And the answer is yes we can do better.
We do random for a classifier.
So in the next lecture we are going to talk about random for us classifier.
Thanks for watching.